---
layout: post
title: plugin testing 
---
One thing I've been thinking about for some time (and actually started working on at one point) is the concept of dynamic plugins in C#.  Originally, I started a project with a friend that would deal with IRC and web scraping.  Unfortunately that project never really went anywhere, but I did have a fair bit of a start on a sample to dynamically load dlls.  While I could make a program that could load new dlls, I couldn't get it to a point where I could delete/overwrite dlls.

Recently at work, an architecture was proposed that involved just this concept!  I took a look at the sample code provided, and (finally) thanks to the example code, I was able to get the dynamic loading of dlls working the way I wanted.  Ultimately, I think it's not exactly what I had in mind, but in retrospect, I'm not sure what I had in mind was entirely possible (basically, I think I wanted to be able to create an object from a dll but not require the dll to exist on disk.  I suppose that might be possible if I read the dlls into memory and run from a byte-array in memory?  Something to try out).

In the end, I created two sample frameworks for dynamic dll plugin loading in C#.  One sample uses app domains, shadow copies, and a cache path.  This approach allows dlls to be loaded from the cache path and leave the original files open for delete/rewrite.  However, this means that the dlls do still exist on disk, which might lead to versioning/cleanup issues.  I'm not sure this approach really does what I want, since it doesn't exactly keep the file structure transparent to the user.  The full sample code can be downloaded here: [PluginLoadTest.zip](/file/PluginLoadTest.zip).

The other sample I created uses the Microsoft Extensibility Framework (MEF).  This framework is a new built-in framework to allow for dynamic plugin loading.  The nice part about this approach is that since everything is part of the .NET libraries, there's not a lot required to make it work the way I want.   This approach does not allow you to overwrite/delete existing dlls, but it also doesn't create any copies, so the files in use are clearly apparent.  Sample code for this approach can be downloaded here: [MefPluginTest.zip](/file/MefPluginTest.zip).

These plugin examples were put together with the idea that the Glitch project could support dynamic plugins.  While this project in particular doesn't really need the dynamic nature of these samples (I'm not sure there's a lot of utility to being able to load new plugins at runtime for this program), it was an interesting exercise that I think could be applied elsewhere.  For example, one of the main reasons this architecture was proposed was to allow simple deployment of new/updated libraries to a running Azure instance.  Since cloud deployments can be quite lengthy, this approach allows the user to make fast updates to existing deployments.  Of course, staging is also available, but for time-critical changes or to do fast development iterations, the ability to make library changes without having to repackage/deploy can be extremely handy.

It remains to be seen whether either of these approaches will be used for the Glitch project, but they were definitely interesting to put together and I think creating usable/running examples of each approach will be helpful in the future (and hopefully the code samples will prove helpful to someone else!).  I may make a followup post on this at some point with more code examples.
